README.md, before:

# Digital Clock

A feature-rich web-based digital clock application built with Spring Boot and vanilla JavaScript. This application provides a world clock with timezone support, alarm functionality, stopwatch, and countdown timer.

## Features

### 1. World Clock
- Real-time digital clock display (HH:mm:ss format)
- Current date and day of the week
- Timezone selector with search functionality
- Support for all global timezones
- Automatic timezone detection

### 2. Alarm
- Set alarms for specific times
- Timezone-aware alarm system
- Audio notification using Web Audio API
- Visual alert notifications
- Displays active alarm with timezone information
- **Persistent storage** - Alarms survive page refreshes using localStorage
- Cancel alarm functionality

### 3. Stopwatch
- Precise time tracking in HH:mm:ss format
- Start/Stop toggle functionality
- Reset capability
- **Persistent storage** - State survives page refreshes using localStorage
- Automatically resumes if running when page was closed
- Accounts for elapsed time during page closure

### 4. Countdown Timer
- Set custom timer duration in minutes
- Visual countdown display
- Start/Stop toggle
- Alert notification when timer completes
- **Persistent storage** - Timer state survives page refreshes using localStorage
- Automatically resumes countdown if running when page was closed
- Accounts for elapsed time during page closure
- Triggers completion alert if timer finished while page was closed

## Technologies Used

### Backend
- **Java 17**
- **Spring Boot 3.3.2**
  - Spring Web
  - Spring Boot DevTools
  - Thymeleaf Template Engine
- **Maven** - Dependency management and build tool

### Frontend
- **HTML5** - Semantic markup
- **CSS3** - Responsive styling with Flexbox
- **JavaScript (ES6+)** - Core functionality
- **jQuery 3.6.0** - DOM manipulation
- **Moment.js 2.29.1** - Date/time handling
- **Moment Timezone 0.5.33** - Timezone conversions
- **Select2 4.0.13** - Enhanced timezone dropdown with search
- **Web Audio API** - Alarm sound generation

## Prerequisites

- Java 17 or higher
- Maven 3.6+ (or use included Maven wrapper)
- Modern web browser (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge)

## Installation & Setup

### 1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/Digital-Clock.git
cd Digital-Clock
```

### 2. Navigate to the project directory
```bash
cd digitalclock
```

### 3. Build the project
```bash
# Using Maven wrapper (recommended)
./mvnw clean install

# Or using system Maven
mvn clean install
```

### 4. Run the application
```bash
# Using Maven wrapper
./mvnw spring-boot:run

# Or using system Maven
mvn spring-boot:run

# Or run the JAR directly
java -jar target/digitalclock-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```

### 5. Access the application
Open your web browser and navigate to:
```
http://localhost:8080
```

## Usage Guide

### Setting the Timezone
1. Click on the timezone dropdown at the top of the clock
2. Search for your desired timezone (e.g., "America/New_York", "Asia/Tokyo")
3. Select the timezone from the dropdown
4. The clock will automatically update to display time in the selected timezone

### Setting an Alarm
1. Navigate to the "Alarm" section
2. Click on the time input field
3. Select your desired alarm time
4. Click "Set Alarm" button
5. A confirmation message will appear showing the alarm time and timezone
6. The alarm is automatically saved and will persist even if you close the browser
7. Click "Cancel Alarm" to clear an active alarm
8. When the alarm triggers, you'll hear a beep sound and see an alert

### Using the Stopwatch
1. Navigate to the "Stopwatch" section
2. Click "Start Stopwatch" to begin timing
3. Click "Stop Stopwatch" to pause
4. Click "Start Stopwatch" again to resume
5. Click "Reset Stopwatch" to clear and start over
6. Your stopwatch state is automatically saved - it will resume even if you close the browser
7. If running when you close the page, it accounts for elapsed time when you return

### Using the Timer
1. Navigate to the "Timer" section
2. Enter the duration in minutes in the input field
3. Click "Start Timer" to begin countdown
4. Click "Stop Timer" to pause
5. Click "Start Timer" again to resume
6. Your timer state is automatically saved - it continues even if you close the browser
7. If the timer finishes while the page is closed, you'll see the completion alert when you return
8. An alert will notify you when the timer completes

## Project Structure

```
digitalclock/
├── src/
│   ├── main/
│   │   ├── java/com/example/digitalclock/
│   │   │   ├── DigitalClockApplication.java    # Main application class
│   │   │   ├── controller/
│   │   │   │   └── ClockController.java        # Web controller
│   │   │   └── service/
│   │   │       └── ClockService.java           # Business logic
│   │   └── resources/
│   │       ├── application.properties           # Application configuration
│   │       ├── templates/
│   │       │   └── index.html                  # Main HTML template
│   │       └── static/
│   │           ├── css/
│   │           │   └── styles.css              # Styling
│   │           └── js/
│   │               └── clock.js                # JavaScript functionality
│   └── test/
│       └── java/com/example/digitalclock/
│           └── DigitalClockApplicationTests.java
├── pom.xml                                      # Maven dependencies
└── README.md
```

## Configuration

The application uses default Spring Boot configuration. To customize:

### Change Server Port
Edit `src/main/resources/application.properties`:
```properties
server.port=8090
```

### Change Application Name
```properties
spring.application.name=my-digital-clock
```

## Browser Compatibility

- Chrome 90+
- Firefox 88+
- Safari 14+
- Edge 90+

Note: Web Audio API is required for alarm sounds and is supported in all modern browsers.

## Known Limitations

- Only one alarm can be active at a time
- Timer input is limited to minutes (no seconds)

## Future Enhancements

- Multiple alarm support with labels
- Dark mode toggle
- Custom alarm sounds upload
- Timer presets (5min, 10min, 15min, etc.)
- Lap times for stopwatch
- Browser notifications
- Progressive Web App (PWA) support
- User accounts and cloud sync

## Development

### Running in Development Mode
Spring Boot DevTools is included, enabling hot reload:
```bash
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

Changes to Java files, templates, and static resources will automatically reload.

### Running Tests
```bash
./mvnw test
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## Author

Vidya Sagar

## Acknowledgments

- Spring Boot team for the excellent framework
- Moment.js team for timezone handling
- Select2 team for the enhanced dropdown component

## Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions, please file an issue on the GitHub repository.

---

Made with ❤️ using Spring Boot

Commit message:

Add dark mode toggle feature
Features:
- Toggle button with sun/moon icons in top-right corner
- CSS variables for easy theme switching
- Smooth transitions between light and dark themes
- localStorage persistence for user preference
- Complete dark mode styling for all UI elements

UI Changes:
- Light mode: Clean white and blue color scheme
- Dark mode: Eye-friendly dark gray background with light text
- Enhanced Select2 dropdown dark mode support
- Responsive dark mode toggle for mobile devices

Technical Implementation:
- CSS custom properties for all colors
- JavaScript toggle function with localStorage
- Auto-load preference on page startup
- All elements adapt via CSS variables

README.md, after:

# Digital Clock

A feature-rich web-based digital clock application built with Spring Boot and vanilla JavaScript. This application provides a world clock with timezone support, alarm functionality, stopwatch, and countdown timer.

## Features

### 1. World Clock
- Real-time digital clock display (HH:mm:ss format)
- Current date and day of the week
- Timezone selector with search functionality
- Support for all global timezones
- Automatic timezone detection

### 2. Alarm
- Set alarms for specific times
- Timezone-aware alarm system
- Audio notification using Web Audio API
- Visual alert notifications
- Displays active alarm with timezone information
- **Persistent storage** - Alarms survive page refreshes using localStorage
- Cancel alarm functionality

### 3. Stopwatch
- Precise time tracking in HH:mm:ss format
- Start/Stop toggle functionality
- Reset capability
- **Persistent storage** - State survives page refreshes using localStorage
- Automatically resumes if running when page was closed
- Accounts for elapsed time during page closure

### 4. Countdown Timer
- Set custom timer duration in minutes
- Visual countdown display
- Start/Stop toggle
- Alert notification when timer completes
- **Persistent storage** - Timer state survives page refreshes using localStorage
- Automatically resumes countdown if running when page was closed
- Accounts for elapsed time during page closure
- Triggers completion alert if timer finished while page was closed

### 5. Dark Mode
- Toggle between light and dark themes
- Eye-friendly dark color scheme
- Smooth transitions between themes
- **Persistent preference** - Theme choice saved to localStorage
- Affects all UI elements including dropdowns
- Accessible toggle button with theme icons

## Technologies Used

### Backend
- **Java 17**
- **Spring Boot 3.3.2**
  - Spring Web
  - Spring Boot DevTools
  - Thymeleaf Template Engine
- **Maven** - Dependency management and build tool

### Frontend
- **HTML5** - Semantic markup
- **CSS3** - Responsive styling with Flexbox
- **JavaScript (ES6+)** - Core functionality
- **jQuery 3.6.0** - DOM manipulation
- **Moment.js 2.29.1** - Date/time handling
- **Moment Timezone 0.5.33** - Timezone conversions
- **Select2 4.0.13** - Enhanced timezone dropdown with search
- **Web Audio API** - Alarm sound generation

## Prerequisites

- Java 17 or higher
- Maven 3.6+ (or use included Maven wrapper)
- Modern web browser (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge)

## Installation & Setup

### 1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/Digital-Clock.git
cd Digital-Clock
```

### 2. Navigate to the project directory
```bash
cd digitalclock
```

### 3. Build the project
```bash
# Using Maven wrapper (recommended)
./mvnw clean install

# Or using system Maven
mvn clean install
```

### 4. Run the application
```bash
# Using Maven wrapper
./mvnw spring-boot:run

# Or using system Maven
mvn spring-boot:run

# Or run the JAR directly
java -jar target/digitalclock-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```

### 5. Access the application
Open your web browser and navigate to:
```
http://localhost:8080
```

## Usage Guide

### Setting the Timezone
1. Click on the timezone dropdown at the top of the clock
2. Search for your desired timezone (e.g., "America/New_York", "Asia/Tokyo")
3. Select the timezone from the dropdown
4. The clock will automatically update to display time in the selected timezone

### Setting an Alarm
1. Navigate to the "Alarm" section
2. Click on the time input field
3. Select your desired alarm time
4. Click "Set Alarm" button
5. A confirmation message will appear showing the alarm time and timezone
6. The alarm is automatically saved and will persist even if you close the browser
7. Click "Cancel Alarm" to clear an active alarm
8. When the alarm triggers, you'll hear a beep sound and see an alert

### Using the Stopwatch
1. Navigate to the "Stopwatch" section
2. Click "Start Stopwatch" to begin timing
3. Click "Stop Stopwatch" to pause
4. Click "Start Stopwatch" again to resume
5. Click "Reset Stopwatch" to clear and start over
6. Your stopwatch state is automatically saved - it will resume even if you close the browser
7. If running when you close the page, it accounts for elapsed time when you return

### Using the Timer
1. Navigate to the "Timer" section
2. Enter the duration in minutes in the input field
3. Click "Start Timer" to begin countdown
4. Click "Stop Timer" to pause
5. Click "Start Timer" again to resume
6. Your timer state is automatically saved - it continues even if you close the browser
7. If the timer finishes while the page is closed, you'll see the completion alert when you return
8. An alert will notify you when the timer completes

### Toggling Dark Mode
1. Click the theme toggle button in the top-right corner of the clock container
2. The interface will switch between light and dark modes
3. Your preference is automatically saved and will be remembered on future visits
4. Light mode shows a sun icon (☀️), dark mode shows a moon icon (🌙)

## Project Structure

```
digitalclock/
├── src/
│   ├── main/
│   │   ├── java/com/example/digitalclock/
│   │   │   ├── DigitalClockApplication.java    # Main application class
│   │   │   ├── controller/
│   │   │   │   └── ClockController.java        # Web controller
│   │   │   └── service/
│   │   │       └── ClockService.java           # Business logic
│   │   └── resources/
│   │       ├── application.properties           # Application configuration
│   │       ├── templates/
│   │       │   └── index.html                  # Main HTML template
│   │       └── static/
│   │           ├── css/
│   │           │   └── styles.css              # Styling
│   │           └── js/
│   │               └── clock.js                # JavaScript functionality
│   └── test/
│       └── java/com/example/digitalclock/
│           └── DigitalClockApplicationTests.java
├── pom.xml                                      # Maven dependencies
└── README.md
```

## Configuration

The application uses default Spring Boot configuration. To customize:

### Change Server Port
Edit `src/main/resources/application.properties`:
```properties
server.port=8090
```

### Change Application Name
```properties
spring.application.name=my-digital-clock
```

## Browser Compatibility

- Chrome 90+
- Firefox 88+
- Safari 14+
- Edge 90+

Note: Web Audio API is required for alarm sounds and is supported in all modern browsers.

## Known Limitations

- Only one alarm can be active at a time
- Timer input is limited to minutes (no seconds)

## Future Enhancements

- Multiple alarm support with labels
- Custom alarm sounds upload
- Timer presets (5min, 10min, 15min, etc.)
- Lap times for stopwatch
- Browser notifications
- Progressive Web App (PWA) support
- User accounts and cloud sync

## Development

### Running in Development Mode
Spring Boot DevTools is included, enabling hot reload:
```bash
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

Changes to Java files, templates, and static resources will automatically reload.

### Running Tests
```bash
./mvnw test
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## Author

Vidya Sagar

## Acknowledgments

- Spring Boot team for the excellent framework
- Moment.js team for timezone handling
- Select2 team for the enhanced dropdown component

## Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions, please file an issue on the GitHub repository.

---

Made with ❤️ using Spring Boot
